| Supported Targets | ESP32 | ESP32-C2 | ESP32-C3 | ESP32-C6 | ESP32-H2 | ESP32-P4 | ESP32-S2 | ESP32-S3 | Linux |
| ----------------- | ----- | -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- | ----- |

# Hello World Example

Starts a FreeRTOS task to print "Hello World".

(See the README.md file in the upper level 'examples' directory for more information about examples.)

## How to use example

Follow detailed instructions provided specifically for this example.

Select the instructions depending on Espressif chip installed on your development board:

- [ESP32 Getting Started Guide](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/stable/get-started/index.html)
- [ESP32-S2 Getting Started Guide](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/latest/esp32s2/get-started/index.html)


## Example folder contents

The project **hello_world** contains one source file in C language [hello_world_main.c](main/hello_world_main.c). The file is located in folder [main](main).

ESP-IDF projects are built using CMake. The project build configuration is contained in `CMakeLists.txt` files that provide set of directives and instructions describing the project's source files and targets (executable, library, or both).

Below is short explanation of remaining files in the project folder.

```
├── CMakeLists.txt
├── pytest_hello_world.py      Python script used for automated testing
├── main
│   ├── CMakeLists.txt
│   └── hello_world_main.c
└── README.md                  This is the file you are currently reading
```

For more information on structure and contents of ESP-IDF projects, please refer to Section [Build System](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/latest/esp32/api-guides/build-system.html) of the ESP-IDF Programming Guide.

## Troubleshooting

* Program upload failure

    * Hardware connection is not correct: run `idf.py -p PORT monitor`, and reboot your board to see if there are any output logs.
    * The baud rate for downloading is too high: lower your baud rate in the `menuconfig` menu, and try again.

## Technical support and feedback

Please use the following feedback channels:

* For technical queries, go to the [esp32.com](https://esp32.com/) forum
* For a feature request or bug report, create a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf/issues)

We will get back to you as soon as possible.

# Efuse Example

The following steps instruct you to set up a testing environment to test the efuse API provided by ESP-IDF. This instruction will make sure that the efuse is not being fused, until you set the flag in the menuconfig (`CONFIG_EFUSE_VIRTUAL`) 

1. Start a new project

    1.1 Copy a “hello world” example code from `${IDF_PATH}/example/get-started/hello-world`

2. Generate a custom efuse table, for the format of efuse table, visit [here](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/v5.2.3/esp32/api-reference/system/efuse.html?highlight=efuse%20table#description-csv-file)

    2.1 Open terminal in your current project directory.

    2.2 Create a file called esp_efuse_custom_table.csv inside ./main/

    2.3 Now you can start adding your custom bit field in the csv file.

    2.4 For example, you can add the following
    ```
    EP_DATA,                                 EFUSE_BLK3,    56,  26,    EP DATA
    EP_DATA.SERIAL_NO,                       EFUSE_BLK3,    56,  20,    EP SERIAL 
    EP_DATA.RESERVED,                        EFUSE_BLK3,    76,  6,     RESERVED
    ```

    2.5 Now try to type idf.py efuse-show-table, you shall see your custom fields added in the original table

    2.6 Run the following command python ${IDF_PATH}/components/efuse/efuse_table_gen.py --idf_target esp32 ../main\esp_efuse_custom_table.csv

    2.7 This will generate esp_efuse_custom_table.h, esp_efuse.custom_table.c, esp_efuse_custom_table.csv

    2.8 You should change your CMakeLists.txt file to include the source and header generated by esp_efuse_gen.py
    ```
    idf_component_register(SRCS "hello_world_main.c" "esp_efuse_custom_table.c"
                    INCLUDE_DIRS "." "include")
    ```

    2.9 (Optional) In VSCode, if it thrown error of saying it does not recognize the efuse library or parsing the syntax, you can include it by pressing `ctrl + p` > `select c/c++ select intellisense configuration` > `use ${workspace}/build/compile_commands.json`. If you didn’t see this json file, try to build the project first by typing idf.py build.

3. Set up efuse for debug and testing in menuconfig
    
    3.1 Open config menu (`idf.py menuconfig`)
    3.2 Go to Component config -> efuse bit manager
    3.3 Select simulate efuse operation in RAM
    3.4 Select use custom efuse table
    3.5 In the file selection column, select the efuse table that created in Step 2

4. Try to call some efuse function in the main function

    4.1 For example, you can use esp_efuse_read_field_blob() to read the efuse bit, for example ESP_EFUSE_MAC_FACTORY is to read the default mac address that comes by factory default.

    4.2 The previously added custom field in esp_efuse_custom.csv, if compiled successful in step 2.f-h, will be available and detected by your IDE intellisense tool. A prefix ESP_EFUSE_ will be added. For example, ESP_EFUSE_EP_DATA_SERIAL_NO is the serial no in your csv file.

5. To seal the efuse, turn off the `CONFIG_EFUSE_VIRTUAL` flag in menuconfig. *DO THIS WITH CAUTIOUS*


